# Contributing Guide

This is a guide for adding content to this course.

## Updating for JHU Sessions

Perform these steps in this order for best efficiency:

* Set up zoom link
* Send out calendar invites
* Set up Slack Workspace (use images on Google Drive to make icon)
* Set up new feedback form (also on Google Drive by copying old one)
* Ensure new feedback form has the correct date info
* Edit the config.yml file to replace links, dates, names etc. everywhere else
* Update CoursePlus (See https://github.com/jhudsl/intro_to_r/issues/256 for steps)
* Copy paste the resources/email_to_class.html text to CoursePlus (after updating the two spots that are manual) email tool and send to students
* Update the intro slides for instructors/TAs


## Quick Start

* Use Pull Requests
* Use Issues to flag problems or bugs
* Only edit `.Rmd` files to change content



## Editing Lectures

Lectures are stored within the `modules` directory. Each module has its own directory. To edit a lecture, locate the appropriate directory within `modules` and edit the `.Rmd` file. For example, if you want to edit the Statistics lecture, you'd edit `Statistics.Rmd` in the `modules/Statistics/` directory.

** Do not edit the html or pdf files. These are automatically generated by GitHub Actions. ** However, sometimes workflows don't complete, so it's always good to double check that htmls and pdfs are appearing as expected on the [website]](https://jhudatascience.org/intro_to_r/) once merged to main.



## Editing Labs

Within each module directory, there is a subdirectory called `lab`. Locate the `lab` subdirectory within the appropriate module directory and edit the `_Key.Rmd` file. For example, if you want to edit the Statistics lab, you'd edit `Statistics_Lab_Key.Rmd` in the `modules/Statistics/lab/` directory.

** Only edit the `_Key.Rmd`. Do not edit the html or pdf files, or the `_Lab.Rmd` file. These are automatically generated by GitHub Actions. ** The `_Lab.Rmd` file is automatically cleaned up for students to fill in during class.



#### How does the lab file cleanup work?

When creating the lab key, there will be certain chunks that you'll want to clear out for the students to fill in on their own. For example, question 1 in the key might be:

````
```{r 1response}
seq(0, 100, 5)
```
````
but you want students to see:

````
```{r 1response}
 
```
````

To make sure this happens correctly, the chunks you want to clean must have a `label` ending with `response` or `response'`. Chunks without a label following this pattern will be ignored and reproduced exactly for the students. For example:

````
```{r 1response}
seq(0, 100, 5)
```
````
or
````
```{r label = '1response'}
seq(0, 100, 5)
```
````
become, respectively:
````
```{r 1response}
 
```
````

````
```{r label = '1response'}
 
```
````

## Cartoons for Slack

These are located here: https://github.com/jhudsl/intro_to_r/tree/main/images/lol

## Module details/ Day info

These are located in docs/module_details


## Emojis

There are two ways to use emojis.

One way is to copy paste from [here](https://gist.github.com/rxaviers/7360908).

Or you can use [this package](https://github.com/hadley/emo). 

This is currently installed like:
```{r}
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("hadley/emo")
```

To use an emoji inline with your text use:

``` `r emo::ji("smile")`  ```

To use an emoji in a chunk use:

```{r}
emo::ji("smile")
```



## Smaller text font per slide

If you want to change the style of a slide, modify the `style.css` file.

For example - this is how you can make slides with smaller font:

In the `style .css` file is the following- which creates smaller font:
```
.small {
   font-size: 0.8em;
}

```

This can be applied to a slide by putting {.small} next to a slide title like so:

`## slide name {.small}`



## Smaller code font per slide


In the `style .css` file is the following- which creates smaller font:
```
.codesmall pre {
    font-size: 16px;
}
```
This can be applied to a slide by putting {.codesmall} next to a slide title like so:

`## slide name {.codesmall}`



## Add color to slide text

```
:::{style="color: red;""}
RED STUFF!
:::
```
 or like this:
 
`Integer` is a special subset of `numeric` that contains only <span style="color: red;">whole numbers.</span>



## Add background color to code chunk describe general syntax for code

In the `styles.css` file is the following:


```
.codeexample pre{
  background-color: lightgreen;
}
```

To add this to a chunk use this in the Rmd file before and after the chunk:

````
<div class = "codeexample">
```{r}
#some code

```
</div>
````

Additional [help](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/ioslides-presentation.html)



## Create gifs

To create video gifs first [record your screen](https://www.hellotech.com/guide/for/how-to-screen-record-on-mac) like so (note this is for Mac users): 

1) Command + Shift + 5 
2) Select either entire screen - or more likely a portion of the screen button
3) Click record

Next convert the video to a gif using https://ezgif.com/video-to-gif.

Be sure that you select gif as the output.



